# Final-Exam--Class.sh
Final Exam demonstrating bash skilles covered in class. Includes a file analysis tool named and build off a previous script completed in class called class.sh

The following is a copy of the content of my Final writeup in explanation of the script's functionality.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

  The following script I used for my final is an improved version of my class.txt file from last week. This choice was done as it guarantees that the topic is one that was covered in class that I was able to elaborate upon in order to demonstrate familiarity. The function of the script is similar to the ctrl+f hotkey ment to find words. The main difference between the ctrl+f command and my script is that the former cannot find a word in a directory you do not have open, nor allows you as much freedom as a command line might, whereas the latter does. My script class.sh allows you another advantage, it allows you to find a certain term between chosen lines whereas ctrl+f is for the totality of the tab on screen only. After some modification both total amounts of times the word desired is listed between the range and within the totality of the document was made possible. This makes my script an adequate tool for manual data analysis, for instance you search the term “ .py” in a file or common syntax such as “print (“hello world”)“. This filtering will allow you to see if there are irregularities which may be imported to your device when importing a file allowing malware analysis and prevention. The feature specifying which lines you would like to look at helps because not all terms such as print may be harmful, additionally the feature showing the amount of times the term is printed to be found may allow you to go through more thoroughly if you missed anything. 

   Bash was selected on this project due to my increased familiarity compared to other shells. The development process was relatively straightforward as it was built off a previous class script in which a file containing alice and wonderland was printed out within certain lines. The second version of this script I worked on was being able to change what lines were able to be modified, and now the file itself can be changed on top of being able to search for a certain word within those lines as described beforehand. Some of the math formatting was difficult but with the help of  Stéphane Chazelas from stack exchange’s public forum it was not too hard. The saving of variables, and math is self explanatory, and those which aren't were explained in class. Multiple variations for both testing, and documentation were tested. Most errors were resolved by rearranging the already listed code (variables must be saved before they can be used in a function for example). Results of errors were resolved because cloushell listed what line the error occurred on and syntax was resolved. 

   Overall this class was very beneficial to my understanding of scripts. The course structure ending with script improvement, and debugging was particularly helpful. Outside lecture material such as how to integrate certain files and downloads such as the fish shell were also useful. Since I did not want to worry about reintegrating tools such as fish I made sure bash which is very commonly used to be focused on. Additionally looking at scripts I had already made gave me ideas on what to do next, and most important develop a tool I might actually use. Below is screenshots of my repository and a link as well.

Repo:
https://github.com/Inksquiddd/Final-Exam--Class.sh.git


